# miR21_PDAC
Loss of microRNA-21 leads to profound stromal remodeling and short survival in K-Ras-driven mouse models of pancreatic cancer

Abstract
The tumor microenvironment of pancreatic cancer adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is highly desmoplastic with distinct tumor-restraining and tumor-promoting fibroblast subpopulations. Re-education rather than indiscriminate elimination of these fibroblasts has emerged as a new strategy for combination therapy. Here, we studied global loss of pro-fibrotic non-coding regulatory microRNA-21 (miR-21) in K-Ras-driven genetically engineered mouse models of PDAC. Loss of miR-21 accelerated tumor initiation via mucinous cystic neoplastic lesions and progression to locally advanced invasive carcinoma from which animals precipitously succumbed at an early age. We uncovered a cell-autonomous requirement of miR-21 activity for induction of tumor-restraining myofibroblasts, whose absence led to a profound remodeling of the stroma and massive infiltrate of tumor-permissive immune cells. Low miR-21 expression negatively correlated with a fibroblast gene expression signature and positively with an immune cell gene expression signature in TCGA PDAC data set (n = 156) mirroring findings in genetic models.  In vitro and in vivo isograft experiments showed that miR-21 activity was dispensable for cancer cell growth, but required for complete execution of TGF--mediated programs.  Our results suggest that modulation of miR-21 activity may provide a novel therapeutic opportunity to affect the composition of fibroblast subpopulations and enhance current treatments.  

